README.md, before:

# pybind11_embed

Quick how-to on how to embed python.

## Why?

Most people use pybind11 to call c++ from their Python, but it can be
cool to call Python from their c++.

## What

A simple wrapper around pybind11 embed that shows how it is done.

### Threads

Threads are a complication, because of the need to lock and unlock the
gil, and as far as I can tell, the "scoped gil" code to do this does
not work quite right in pybind11, so this wrapper also creates a queue
where calls into python are (unfortunately) serialized and processed
one-at-a-time by a special python-running thread. In each case the caller
that pushed into the queue blocks waiting to be notified of its result.

#### UPDATE !!!

With the help of people from the pybind discussion, I was able to make
the gil locking work without the use of a work queue. I have added
a minimal example here called `no_queue.cc`. You can use this entirely
instead of `pycall.hpp`

### Protobufs

A common way of sharing data between python and c++ is via protobufs,
which both support. Sadly, their underlying memory image of a protobuf is
pretty different, so code that moves protobufs across this boundary does
so by using the protobufs marshal/unmarshal capabilities to stringify
when crossing the bounday. This is convenient and simple, but not super
efficient.  It's probably better to use pybind11's wrapping abilities
to do what you want.

## Building

Rather than provide a complex CMake or Bazel file, this just includes
a script that shows how to get the necessary linker and cflags to build
an app with pybind11 and protobufs.

Commit message:

clean up no-queue version

README.md, after:

# pybind11_embed

Quick how-to on how to embed python.

## Why?

Most people use pybind11 to call c++ from their Python, but it can be
cool to call Python from their c++.

## What

A simple wrapper around pybind11 embed that shows how it is done.

### Threads

Threads are a complication, because of the need to lock and unlock the
gil. I struggled  with this so much that I implemented a version of
this that pushes all python work through a serializing queue. You
can see that in the `queue_based/` directory.

However, someone showed me how it is done, and we can now call from
different threads by grabbing the gil lock, and not requiring a single
python worker thread. See `gil_only/`.

For compute-bound workloads these are not much different, but if the
python code blocks on io or other things, then using the gil as the
only serializing method is an advantage.


### Protobufs

A common way of sharing data between python and c++ is via protobufs,
which both support. Sadly, their underlying memory image of a protobuf is
pretty different, so code that moves protobufs across this boundary does
so by using the protobufs marshal/unmarshal capabilities to stringify
when crossing the bounday. This is convenient and simple, but not super
efficient.  It may be better to use pybind11's wrapping abilities
to do what you want.

## Building

Rather than provide a complex CMake or Bazel file, this just includes a
script `build.sh` that shows how to get the necessary linker and cflags
to build an app with pybind11 and protobufs.
